# CS465-fullstack
CS 465 Full Stack Development with MEAN

Travlr Getaways is a fictional travel agency which has asked our imaginary development team (me) to develop a full stack web application for their company that allows users to both register an account as well as purchase travel packages for their perfect getaway. This application also called for an administrative SPA for easy website configuration by company officials. 

Architecture
As a full stack project, our web application employed the MEAN approach to development, and used MongoDB, Express.js, Angular, and Node.js. In developing the front end, a combination of Express HTML and handlebar views were designed to quickly populate our webpage from our back end. Express allowed us to create a MVC style framework to design how our web pages would function. The bulk of our application functionality was programmed in Java, HTML, and TypeScript. On the back end, we used a NoSQL MongoDB because of Mongo’s incredible search query filtering, speed, and ease of moderation via MongoDBCompass. The administrative control page was a SPA designed using an Angular framework thanks to its modular functionality and exceptional plugin library.

Functionality
The primary data format that is retrieved and parsed by our application is JSON. JSON is a text-based data format that is used to store and transfer data, and cannot contain functions. While this is beneficial from a security standpoint, JSON also provides us the incredible flexibility of being creatable and usable by other programming languages, which makes connecting a front and back end much simpler. In addition, JSON also allows for the use of key/value pairs in our data formatting, which means that we can design our travel listing page using a very skeletal layout, and still have it populated from our database by parsing and formatting each recorded entry into our webpage. By having simple, reusable components, this allows for very simple and efficient scaling of the web application as the company itself begins to grow. From an administrative standpoint, our SPA uses a token authentication that is injected once the user has logged in to ensure that only the correct users are able to gain access.

Testing
Testing was a very new and interesting experience in a full stack setting. By having many different applications running simultaneously such as our coding environment, our PowerShell, our MongoDBCompass, Postman, and the locally hosted web page itself, it can be overwhelming to manage. However, once basic proficiency has been achieved with each individual component through a little patience and perseverance, the testing process is exceptionally streamlined. We are able to run and interact with our webpage locally to test functionality, use Postman to scrutinize our access points and HTTP requests, and view our console log to detect any handled errors and trace them to their issue. 

Reflection
Many times have I taken a course that introduces a new program, or a new language, and felt immediate discomfort at jumping into yet another cold pool of learning. This course would have caused me great fear many months, if not years, ago. However, part of becoming a software developer is realizing that there are so many different applications and techniques that you will have to expose yourself to. In a way, this course has shown me another layer of growth, and learning how to learn. Additionally, part of going into an industry as incredibly vast and technical as software is being prepared to branch off. It’s impossible to cover every area, let alone develop proficiency in each. The biggest concept that this course, and many like it have taught me, is exposure. By knowing what to expect, I can become a jack of trades that is ready to specialize when the time comes, and I hope this level of flexibility can be a benefit when it comes to recruitment. 
